docs/index.rst, before:

.. Flask-Bootstrap documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 18 13:00:31 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Flask-Bootstrap
===============

.. module:: flask_bootstrap

Flask-Bootstrap packages `Twitter's Bootstrap
<http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/>`_ into an extension that mostly consists
of a blueprint named 'bootstrap'. It can also create links to serve Bootstrap
from a CDN.

Usage
-----

Here is an example::

  from flask.ext.bootstrap import Bootstrap

  [...]

  Bootstrap(app)

This makes some new templates available, mainly ``bootstrap_base.html`` and
``bootstrap_responsive.html``. These are blank pages that include all bootstrap
resources, and have predefined blocks where you can put your content. The core
block to alter is ``body_content``, otherwise see the source of the template
for more possiblities.

The url-endpoint ``bootstrap.static`` is available for refering to Bootstrap
resources, but usually, this isn't needed. A bit better is using the
``bootstrap_find_resource`` template filter, which will CDN settings into
account.

Macros
------

A few macros are available to make your life easier. These need to be imported
(I recommend create your own "base.html" template that extends one of the
bootstrap base templates first and including the the macros there).

An example "base.html"::

  {% extends "bootstrap_responsive.html" %}
  {% import "bootstrap_wtf.html" as wtf %}

Forms
~~~~~

The ``bootstrap_wtf`` template contains macros to help you output forms
quickly. The most basic way is using them as an aid to create a form by hand::

  <form class="form form-horizontal" method="post">
    {{ form.hidden_tag() }}
    {{ wtf.form_errors(form, "only") }}

    {{ wtf.horizontal_field(form.field1) }}
    {{ wtf.horizontal_field(form.field2) }}

    <div class="form-actions">
       <button name="action_save" type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Save changes</button>
    </div>
  </form>

However, often you just want to get a form done quickly and have no need for
intense fine-tuning:

::

  {{ wtf.quick_form(form) }}


Configuration options
---------------------

There are a few configuration options used by the templates:

====================================== ========================================
``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``             Whether or not to use the minified
                                       versions of the css/js files. Defaults
                                       to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_JQUERY_VERSION``           This version of `jQuery`_ is included in
                                       the template via Google CDN. Also honors
                                       ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``. Set this to
                                       ``None`` to not include jQuery at all.
                                       Note that non-minified Bootstrap
                                       resources are sometimes missing on
                                       bootstrapcdn, so it is best not to use
                                       it without turning on
                                       ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``. Defaults to
                                       ``'1'``.
``BOOTSTRAP_HTML5_SHIM``               Include the default IE-fixes that are
                                       usually included when using bootstrap.
                                       Defaults to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ACCOUNT`` If set, include `Google Analytics`_
                                       boilerplate using this account. Defaults
                                       to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_USE_CDN``                  If ``True``, Bootstrap resources will
                                       no be served from the local app
                                       instance, but will use a Content
                                       Delivery Network instead (configured
                                       by ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``). Defaults
                                       to ``False``.
``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``              The URLs to which Bootstrap and other
                                       filenames are appended when using a CDN.
                                       The default is a dictionary of URLs
                                       pointing to `cdnjs`_.
``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_PREFER_SSL``           If the ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` starts
                                       with ``//``, prepend ``'https:'`` to it.
                                       Defaults to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME``              If ``True``, `FontAwesome`_ will be
                                       enabled. Defaults to ``False``.
``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS``               If ``True``, no Bootstrap CSS files
                                       will be loaded. Use this if you compile
                                       a custom css file that already includes
                                       bootstrap. Defaults to ``False``.
====================================== ========================================

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0-2
    The ``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS`` configuration option was added. The default
    CDN was changed to `cdnjs`_ from `netdna`_

.. versionadded:: 2.2.1-1
    ``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME`` configuration option added, and
    ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` changed to a dictionary.

.. versionadded:: 2.0.4-4
    Default `jQuery`_ version changed to ``'1'`` from ``'1.7.2'``.
    ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_CDN`` and ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_PREFER_SSL`` options added.

.. versionadded:: 2.0.3-1
    ``BOOTSTRAP_GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ACCOUNT`` configuration option added.

.. _Google Analytics: http://www.google.com/analytics
.. _FontAwesome: http://fortawesome.github.com/Font-Awesome/
.. _cdnjs: http://cdnjs.com
.. _netdns: http://bootstrapcdn.com
.. _jquery: http://jquery.com/

Installation
------------

Either install from github using ``pip`` or from `PyPI
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Bootstrap>`_.

A note on versioning
--------------------

Flask-Bootstrap tries to keep some track of Twitter's Bootstrap releases.
Versioning is usually in the form of ``Bootstrap version`` - ``Flask-Bootstrap
iteration``. For example, a version of ``2.0.3-2`` bundles Bootstrap version
``2.0.3`` and is the second release of Flask-Bootstrap containing that version.

If you need to rely on your templates not changing, simply pin the version in
your setup.py.

CHANGES
~~~~~~~

The following changes could have possibly been not backwards compatible:

2.1.0-1
"""""""
* New upstream release: 2.1.0.
* Changed the default version of jQuery from 1.7.2 to just 1. This means that
  the latest 1.x.x version of jQuery will be pulled.

2.1.1-1
"""""""
* WTForms generated HTML code is now considered safe. This allows Flask-WTF's
  ``RecaptchaField`` to work with ``quick_form``.

2.1.1-2
"""""""
* There is no longer a self.app on Flask-Bootstrap. The extension can be shared
  by any number of applications using ``init_app()`` (though the old
  ``__init__()`` signature is kept for backward compatibiliy).

2.2.1-1
"""""""
* `FontAwesome`_ is now supported
  as well, can also be loaded from bootstrapCDN. Set ``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME``
  to ``True`` to enable it.
* ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` is now a dictionary for multiple CDNs (i.e.
  Bootstrap, FontAwesome can use different base URLs). This will break any code
  that relied on setting ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``.

2.2.2-1
"""""""
* `FontAwesome`_ now version 3.0 instead of 2.0.
* The ``navbar()``-macro is gone. It was accidentally committed and never did
  anything useful, so this hopefully won't concern anyone.

2.3.0-2
"""""""
* Switched the CDN to `cdnjs <http://cdnjs.com>`_ because `netdna
  <http://bootstrapcdn.com>`_ keeps changing files around too much.
* Introduced ``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS`` option.

Commit message:

Move config change info to versionchanged::

docs/index.rst, after:

.. Flask-Bootstrap documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Mon Feb 18 13:00:31 2013.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Flask-Bootstrap
===============

.. module:: flask_bootstrap

Flask-Bootstrap packages `Twitter's Bootstrap
<http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap/>`_ into an extension that mostly consists
of a blueprint named 'bootstrap'. It can also create links to serve Bootstrap
from a CDN.

Usage
-----

Here is an example::

  from flask.ext.bootstrap import Bootstrap

  [...]

  Bootstrap(app)

This makes some new templates available, mainly ``bootstrap_base.html`` and
``bootstrap_responsive.html``. These are blank pages that include all bootstrap
resources, and have predefined blocks where you can put your content. The core
block to alter is ``body_content``, otherwise see the source of the template
for more possiblities.

The url-endpoint ``bootstrap.static`` is available for refering to Bootstrap
resources, but usually, this isn't needed. A bit better is using the
``bootstrap_find_resource`` template filter, which will CDN settings into
account.

Macros
------

A few macros are available to make your life easier. These need to be imported
(I recommend create your own "base.html" template that extends one of the
bootstrap base templates first and including the the macros there).

An example "base.html"::

  {% extends "bootstrap_responsive.html" %}
  {% import "bootstrap_wtf.html" as wtf %}

Forms
~~~~~

The ``bootstrap_wtf`` template contains macros to help you output forms
quickly. The most basic way is using them as an aid to create a form by hand::

  <form class="form form-horizontal" method="post">
    {{ form.hidden_tag() }}
    {{ wtf.form_errors(form, "only") }}

    {{ wtf.horizontal_field(form.field1) }}
    {{ wtf.horizontal_field(form.field2) }}

    <div class="form-actions">
       <button name="action_save" type="submit" class="btn btn-primary">Save changes</button>
    </div>
  </form>

However, often you just want to get a form done quickly and have no need for
intense fine-tuning:

::

  {{ wtf.quick_form(form) }}


Configuration options
---------------------

There are a few configuration options used by the templates:

====================================== ========================================
``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``             Whether or not to use the minified
                                       versions of the css/js files. Defaults
                                       to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_JQUERY_VERSION``           This version of `jQuery`_ is included in
                                       the template via Google CDN. Also honors
                                       ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``. Set this to
                                       ``None`` to not include jQuery at all.
                                       Note that non-minified Bootstrap
                                       resources are sometimes missing on
                                       bootstrapcdn, so it is best not to use
                                       it without turning on
                                       ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_MINIFIED``. Defaults to
                                       ``'1'``.
``BOOTSTRAP_HTML5_SHIM``               Include the default IE-fixes that are
                                       usually included when using bootstrap.
                                       Defaults to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ACCOUNT`` If set, include `Google Analytics`_
                                       boilerplate using this account. Defaults
                                       to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_USE_CDN``                  If ``True``, Bootstrap resources will
                                       no be served from the local app
                                       instance, but will use a Content
                                       Delivery Network instead (configured
                                       by ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``). Defaults
                                       to ``False``.
``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``              The URLs to which Bootstrap and other
                                       filenames are appended when using a CDN.
                                       The default is a dictionary of URLs
                                       pointing to `cdnjs`_.
``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_PREFER_SSL``           If the ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` starts
                                       with ``//``, prepend ``'https:'`` to it.
                                       Defaults to ``True``.
``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME``              If ``True``, `FontAwesome`_ will be
                                       enabled. Defaults to ``False``.
``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS``               If ``True``, no Bootstrap CSS files
                                       will be loaded. Use this if you compile
                                       a custom css file that already includes
                                       bootstrap. Defaults to ``False``.
====================================== ========================================

.. versionchanged:: 2.3.0-2
    The default CDN was changed to `cdnjs`_ from `netdna`_.

.. versionchanged:: 2.2.1-1
    ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` was changed from a string to a dictionary.

.. versionchanged:: 2.0.4-4
    Default `jQuery`_ version changed from ``'1.7.2'`` to just ``'1'``.

.. versionadded:: 2.3.0-2
    The ``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS`` configuration option was added.

.. versionadded:: 2.2.1-1
    ``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME`` was configuration option added.

.. versionadded:: 2.0.4-4
    ``BOOTSTRAP_USE_CDN`` and ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_PREFER_SSL`` options added.

.. versionadded:: 2.0.3-1
    ``BOOTSTRAP_GOOGLE_ANALYTICS_ACCOUNT`` configuration option added.

.. _Google Analytics: http://www.google.com/analytics
.. _FontAwesome: http://fortawesome.github.com/Font-Awesome/
.. _cdnjs: http://cdnjs.com
.. _netdns: http://bootstrapcdn.com
.. _jquery: http://jquery.com/

Installation
------------

Either install from github using ``pip`` or from `PyPI
<http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Bootstrap>`_.

A note on versioning
--------------------

Flask-Bootstrap tries to keep some track of Twitter's Bootstrap releases.
Versioning is usually in the form of ``Bootstrap version`` - ``Flask-Bootstrap
iteration``. For example, a version of ``2.0.3-2`` bundles Bootstrap version
``2.0.3`` and is the second release of Flask-Bootstrap containing that version.

If you need to rely on your templates not changing, simply pin the version in
your setup.py.

CHANGES
~~~~~~~

The following changes could have possibly been not backwards compatible:

2.1.0-1
"""""""
* New upstream release: 2.1.0.
* Changed the default version of jQuery from 1.7.2 to just 1. This means that
  the latest 1.x.x version of jQuery will be pulled.

2.1.1-1
"""""""
* WTForms generated HTML code is now considered safe. This allows Flask-WTF's
  ``RecaptchaField`` to work with ``quick_form``.

2.1.1-2
"""""""
* There is no longer a self.app on Flask-Bootstrap. The extension can be shared
  by any number of applications using ``init_app()`` (though the old
  ``__init__()`` signature is kept for backward compatibiliy).

2.2.1-1
"""""""
* `FontAwesome`_ is now supported
  as well, can also be loaded from bootstrapCDN. Set ``BOOTSTRAP_FONTAWESOME``
  to ``True`` to enable it.
* ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL`` is now a dictionary for multiple CDNs (i.e.
  Bootstrap, FontAwesome can use different base URLs). This will break any code
  that relied on setting ``BOOTSTRAP_CDN_BASEURL``.

2.2.2-1
"""""""
* `FontAwesome`_ now version 3.0 instead of 2.0.
* The ``navbar()``-macro is gone. It was accidentally committed and never did
  anything useful, so this hopefully won't concern anyone.

2.3.0-2
"""""""
* Switched the CDN to `cdnjs <http://cdnjs.com>`_ because `netdna
  <http://bootstrapcdn.com>`_ keeps changing files around too much.
* Introduced ``BOOTSTRAP_CUSTOM_CSS`` option.
